The title of this project is, A Web-Based Prediction Model for Students' Academic Performance. It is the second information system project submitted to the school of computing and engineering sciences in partial fulfilment of the requirements for the awarding of the bachelor's degree in business and information technology of Strathmore University.
The following is a brief summary of what the project is about;
Predicting students' academic performance is crucial for educational institutions to improve education quality. The emerging field of learning analytics and big data analytics has enabled early prediction of students' performance, enabling timely interventions and support. However, the prediction of primary school student grades has been neglected by most. Furthermore, middle school students in Kenya often struggle to select the right junior secondary because of limited information from parents, teachers, and media outlets. This lack of information often overlooks other excellent school options and financial stability of guardians among other factors. To address these issues, a system has been proposed to aid students in grade 6 in selecting the most suitable junior secondary school category. The proposed project will be in the form of a web application system that will provide a prediction report after student data is keyed in. The system proposes the use of the J48 decision tree model as it is the best classifier for prediction of students’ academic performance as well as optimal junior secondary school categories for individual students. The proposed methodology for use is the iterative waterfall model as it allows for adjustments to be made as the project progresses. The predictive model will help identify students with below or above average academic motivation, enabling preventive measures and additional resources for those at risk. The model will also facilitate the processing and analysis of student records, fostering better academic performance and higher student transition rates, ultimately enhancing the overall quality of education. It will also empower guardians to plan for their children's future prospects and alleviate the burden of searching for alternative schools in case a student misses out on their desired institution.
